
Codebook - UCI HAR Tidy Dataset 
==================================
*by Ameen AboDabash  29-Feb 2016* 
as part of Data Cleaning course [assignment](https://www.coursera.org/learn/data-cleaning/peer/FIZtT/getting-and-cleaning-data-course-project), for more information about raw data and information about experments carried on to load the raw data [available here](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones)



###Dataset Description



###Dataset Variables

 **subject** 
	-Data type: Numeric
	
	-Possible Values: 1: 30 ( 30 volunteers)
	
 **activity** 
	-Data type: character
	
	-Possible Values:   (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING)
	
**features Vars**

	>feather name is descriptive enough to tell you the meaning of each measure, however, there are couple of abbreviations need to be clear:
		-Jerk = sudden movement acceleration
		-mean and SD is calculated for each subject for each activity.
		-avg calculated for each subject per activity mean & SD measures 

  	
featuer    | Type
| ------------- |:-------------:|  
avg.time-Body-Accelerometer-mean()-X	 |  numeric
avg.time-Body-Accelerometer-mean()-Y	 |  numeric
avg.time-Body-Accelerometer-mean()-Z	 |  numeric
avg.time-Body-Accelerometer-std()-X	 |  numeric
avg.time-Body-Accelerometer-std()-Y	 |  numeric
avg.time-Body-Accelerometer-std()-Z	 |  numeric
avg.time-Gravity-Accelerometer-mean()-X	 |  numeric
avg.time-Gravity-Accelerometer-mean()-Y	 |  numeric
avg.time-Gravity-Accelerometer-mean()-Z	 |  numeric
avg.time-Gravity-Accelerometer-std()-X	 |  numeric
avg.time-Gravity-Accelerometer-std()-Y	 |  numeric
avg.time-Gravity-Accelerometer-std()-Z	 |  numeric
avg.time-Body-AccelerometerJerk-mean()-X	 |  numeric
avg.time-Body-AccelerometerJerk-mean()-Y	 |  numeric
avg.time-Body-AccelerometerJerk-mean()-Z	 |  numeric
avg.time-Body-AccelerometerJerk-std()-X	 |  numeric
avg.time-Body-AccelerometerJerk-std()-Y	 |  numeric
avg.time-Body-AccelerometerJerk-std()-Z	 |  numeric
avg.time-Body-Gyroscope-mean()-X	 |  numeric
avg.time-Body-Gyroscope-mean()-Y	 |  numeric
avg.time-Body-Gyroscope-mean()-Z	 |  numeric
avg.time-Body-Gyroscope-std()-X	 |  numeric
avg.time-Body-Gyroscope-std()-Y	 |  numeric
avg.time-Body-Gyroscope-std()-Z	 |  numeric
avg.time-Body-GyroscopeJerk-mean()-X	 |  numeric
avg.time-Body-GyroscopeJerk-mean()-Y	 |  numeric
avg.time-Body-GyroscopeJerk-mean()-Z	 |  numeric
avg.time-Body-GyroscopeJerk-std()-X	 |  numeric
avg.time-Body-GyroscopeJerk-std()-Y	 |  numeric
avg.time-Body-GyroscopeJerk-std()-Z	 |  numeric
avg.time-Body-Accelerometer-Magnitude-mean()	 |  numeric
avg.time-Body-Accelerometer-Magnitude-std()	 |  numeric
avg.time-Gravity-Accelerometer-Magnitude-mean()	 |  numeric
avg.time-Gravity-Accelerometer-Magnitude-std()	 |  numeric
avg.time-Body-AccelerometerJerk-Magnitude-mean()	 |  numeric
avg.time-Body-AccelerometerJerk-Magnitude-std()	 |  numeric
avg.time-Body-Gyroscope-Magnitude-mean()	 |  numeric
avg.time-Body-Gyroscope-Magnitude-std()	 |  numeric
avg.time-Body-GyroscopeJerk-Magnitude-mean()	 |  numeric
avg.time-Body-GyroscopeJerk-Magnitude-std()	 |  numeric
avg.frequency-Body-Accelerometer-mean()-X	 |  numeric
avg.frequency-Body-Accelerometer-mean()-Y	 |  numeric
avg.frequency-Body-Accelerometer-mean()-Z	 |  numeric
avg.frequency-Body-Accelerometer-std()-X	 |  numeric
avg.frequency-Body-Accelerometer-std()-Y	 |  numeric
avg.frequency-Body-Accelerometer-std()-Z	 |  numeric
avg.frequency-Body-AccelerometerJerk-mean()-X	 |  numeric
avg.frequency-Body-AccelerometerJerk-mean()-Y	 |  numeric
avg.frequency-Body-AccelerometerJerk-mean()-Z	 |  numeric
avg.frequency-Body-AccelerometerJerk-std()-X	 |  numeric
avg.frequency-Body-AccelerometerJerk-std()-Y	 |  numeric
avg.frequency-Body-AccelerometerJerk-std()-Z	 |  numeric
avg.frequency-Body-Gyroscope-mean()-X	 |  numeric
avg.frequency-Body-Gyroscope-mean()-Y	 |  numeric
avg.frequency-Body-Gyroscope-mean()-Z	 |  numeric
avg.frequency-Body-Gyroscope-std()-X	 |  numeric
avg.frequency-Body-Gyroscope-std()-Y	 |  numeric
avg.frequency-Body-Gyroscope-std()-Z	 |  numeric
avg.frequency-Body-Accelerometer-Magnitude-mean()	 |  numeric
avg.frequency-Body-Accelerometer-Magnitude-std()	 |  numeric
avg.frequency-Body-AccelerometerJerk-Magnitude-mean()	 |  numeric
avg.frequency-Body-AccelerometerJerk-Magnitude-std()	 |  numeric
avg.frequency-Body-Gyroscope-Magnitude-mean()	 |  numeric
avg.frequency-Body-Gyroscope-Magnitude-std()	 |  numeric
avg.frequency-Body-GyroscopeJerk-Magnitude-mean()	 |  numeric
avg.frequency-Body-GyroscopeJerk-Magnitude-std()	 |  numeric



###Dataset Files

